We're now going to take a look at the bridge design pattern and the bridge design pattern is simply
the concept of connecting different components through abstractions.
And remember, whatever we talk about abstraction, we typically talk about either and the interface
or an abstract class.
Just wanted to remind you.
So the motivation for using the bridge is that it avoids well, one of the cases is it avoids the Cartesian
product, complexity, dispersion.
So what is that exactly?
Well, let me show you.
So, for example, let's suppose that you have some sort of base class like a thread Chinchilla, for
example, and then you decide that your schedule can be preemptive or cooperative.
But on the other hand, your scheduler can also run on Windows or Unix.
So you end up with a two by two scenario.
So you end up with the two different schedules times, the two different operating system.
So you end up with four classes effectively.
And this is what I'm calling the Cartesian product, because if you have let's say you have three criteria,
then you would have eight different classes because it will be two by two by two.
So it's this kind of product that we actually want to avoid.
And the bridge pattern does exactly this.
The bridge pattern tries to avoid this entire entity explosion.
So if you have something like this, this is the illustration of the scenario I've just mentioned.
So you have a three scheduler and then you have the preemptive corporative.
And from that you inherit the windows, preemptive Unix, preemptive Unix corporative and Windows coöperative.
And you can imagine that if you have more variety in this tree than the tree would become even more
massive.
So you want to avoid this because eventually you end up also supporting, let's say, the Android operating
system and then you end up with six classes instead of four because you have to have one on the preemptive
side and you have to have one on the corporative side.
So what you do instead is slightly different.
What you do is you leave the thread scheduler as a base class and you inherit from the preemptive threat
scheduler and the cooperative threat schedule.
But then, of course, instead of inheritance, you simply use aggregation.
Say you give Henggeler a private field of some kind called platform scheduler, which is all of the
interface type II platform scheduler.
Or indeed you can use an abstract class if you prefer that.
And from that you inherit Unix scheduler and Windows scheduler.
So you can see that instead of using inheritance all the way and getting a sort of binary or a.e tree
of inheritance as you grow in terms of variety, what you do is use aggregation instead.
And that's what the breech pattern is ultimately all about.
So the bridge is quite simply a mechanism which allows you to decouple an interface or indeed an interface
hierarchy from an implementation or indeed an entire implementation hierarchy.